# MLZOOM
A simple upscaling algorithm using Decision trees, KNNs or Random forests
USE THE func_binary.py ONLY!!

An image is comprised of pixels. A slice of a medical image is usually a single channel greyscale image and the information is stored within a 0-255 range. I have presumed that the image dealt with follows the same image format, hence, the pixel-averaging technique is applied on a grayscale single channel image. The idea of this technique is to divide the image is multiple sets of 4 pixels at multiple levels and calculating the average grey from each set. Assuming each set of 4 pixels yield an average, the final result of this averaging will be another greyscale image where its pixels are all average greys of 4-pixel sets of a bigger and higher resolution image. Proceeding to the next step, averaging is again applied to the generated image and this is continued recurrently until a single pixel is remained as the final result. If the initial image is not square a very preliminary blocks of 16 pixels are extracted (rather that sets of 4 pixels) and averaged to 4 pixels as the first level 4-pixel set. This is done for as many blocks as it is possible to generate from the original image. There might be a few pixel losses in this process, however as the pixels are only used for training purposes, the effect of loss should be negligible. Now starting from the final generated pixel and going back recursively, we can assume that each average pixel would generate a set of 4 pixels. Therefore, each average pixel could train a model to generate 4 pixels. This could be a good problem for multivariate regression and in this case to types od regressors (Decision trees and KNNs) were selected. Assuming that each pixel represents a set of 4 pixels, we have now constructed a dataset with one pixel as features and 4 pixels as labels. Generating pixel averages from an image will provide enough training data for the desired ML algorithm.  
If the pixels of the original image are now assumed to be the test set to be predicted, we can generate 4 pixels from each single pixel of the original image. This will scale up the original image 2 times (2X zoom) and this procedure could be applied to the generated images as many times as required by taking the generated image as the test set for prediction of the new upscaled image and so on. 
